hiya my name is elizabeth i'm a medical
student and an artist living in london
and something i haven't shared before on
this channel is that
i also work full-time alongside my
medical degree when i first started
medicine i did have a part-time job this
was working in customer service at
selfridges
but since then things have kind of
snowballed and for the last two years
i've been averaging around
40 hours of paid and unpaid work
alongside university at the moment i
have three jobs i'm a member of ali
abdal's team
where i am his executive assistant but i
also project manage some parts of the
business and
i'm involved in a few things there i
also work as a welfare lead for my
university
i provide peer support to students when
they need it and also i
am a tutor so i help students who want
to get into medicine with their bmat
ucat and interview preparation
i want to share what the positive
learning points of working full-time
alongside medicine have been
for me and although i am definitely not
advocating for this
sort of a workload for any sort of
medical student
there are those of us who don't have a
choice so perhaps this video
might help us see the silver lining to
having to do so much at the same time
and if you are fortunate enough not to
need to work during your degree perhaps
these learning points will help you
without actually having to do the work
because you know sharing is caring
so let's get straight into it the first
and perhaps the most important thing to
me
was around how i manage my time if
you've ever heard about parkinson's law
it basically states that any sort of
project will
fill the space that you allocate to it
so for example if i have an essay to
write and i say
i'm going to write this essay in the
next two weeks or i'm going to write
this essay
this afternoon i kind of found that the
quality of
my work was not very different in the
two cases the thing that i do now is
that i set
very very strict even ridiculous rules
for the things that i need to accomplish
for example i'll say
i'm going to learn dermatology tomorrow
and
although of course i won't be able to
cover everything i will cover
a lot more than i initially thought was
possible and then i'll just have small
things that i need to add to it later i
set myself
very rigid very narrow schedules for
tasks that i need
to do and this is somehow how i get a
lot of the things that i need to do
done otherwise i used to spend a lot of
the time dragging things out taking a
lot longer than was necessary
going down rabbit holes that i really
didn't need to explore spending time on
my phone
or just not being very efficient with
what i needed to do well if i know that
i need to complete some
massive project in two hours i will be
very very efficient with my time
the second thing that working alongside
medicine has taught me is a lot of
communication skills
i am so so grateful for the
communication training that we get in
university i think
kings is absolutely mind-blowingly
brilliant with this
however i've learned just as much if not
more
from my actual work especially working
in customer service or having to
troubleshoot things or having to pacify
people when they are very distressed
these real-life situations have happened
a lot more
in my actual work than they've happened
in medicine because obviously i'm a lot
junior and no one will let me handle
complicated
medical situations the practice that
i've gained from this kind of work is
absolutely invaluable
i found it has improved my confidence so
much more
and it's definitely translated to
medicine most of the time i'm
really comfortable around patients and i
love talking to them
and i think that if you are doing a
customer service job i would definitely
pay attention to those communication
skills
while you are at work too the next thing
that working full-time alongside
medicine has taught me
is how not to procrastinate when you
have a job something that you are paid
for and therefore will get fired if you
don't do properly
you don't have a choice anymore you have
to be at certain places at certain times
things need to be completed by their
deadlines they need to be done properly
there's no
case of i don't feel like doing this
right now or
i'm really not in the mood even though i
definitely still get those feelings i
have to get dressed and show up to work
for example and this is definitely
something that has
translated into my academic life too i
don't really give myself the option to
do things
i will put them in my calendar and then
i will absolutely follow through and do
them
i will treat my academic learning and
revision the same way that i treat my
job
it's something that i need to do it's
not for discussion so therefore i
procrastinate a lot less
because if the majority of the time i am
having to do things anyway
adding a few medical things onto that
too does not make a huge difference to
me
the next thing and i think this is the
absolutely most important for me
is how empowering having all these other
jobs has been there are definitely times
where i feel that medicine
is just not right and is not what i want
to do for the rest of my life
and in those times i always know that i
have a fallback option
i can always be a product manager or i
can be a writer or i can be an artist
and i know that it's unlikely that i
will be stuck
doing something i don't want to do
forever and
this is extremely liberating on the flip
side it also means that i know that for
as long as i stay in medicine it is
because i really really want to
and i enjoy doing it so knowing this for
me means that any time that i spend
around my patients or
doing things in medicine i value it a
lot more than i think i would have
otherwise the last thing i want to
mention is connections with people
outside of medicine
i am extremely guilty in the sense that
my closest friends are all doctors
however i think things would have been a
lot worse had i not had other jobs i
have met
some amazing people who have opened my
eyes to a world outside of medicine and
i know it sounds crazy but
being a medical student very often means
that your whole life
revolves around the hospital and
everything that goes on in there
i'm definitely one of those people who
very easily gets caught up in that
purely hospital
life so i found it very helpful to have
people who showed me that
youtube for example is a very fun thing
initially my plan for this video was to
talk about how to get
a part-time job and afford working
alongside a medical degree and i thought
under the current climate
that might be quite insensitive and
pointless so it's probably something
that i'm going to save for later
as always if you made it so far i do
hope that you got some sort of value
from this video
thank you so much for spending this time
with me i hope you have a wonderful rest
of your day
be kind to yourself and others and
believe everything you think thanks
[Music]
bye